# Autodidact Guides

"What resources should I use to learn 'insert thing to learn here'?" is a
question any individual starting out will run into. Unfornately, this is
a difficult question to answer, as it runs into many issues. One issue is
finding resources that are up-to-date. An example of this, is how `//`
comments were added in the C99 standard, so any resources references
stating you can only use `/* */` comments are now out-of-date. Another
issue is accessibility. Not everyone is capable of paying $60(USD) for a
book like "Head First C", and when you purchase a book (typically) it
only comes in one format.

To resolves issues like the ones above, I am starting a new series of
books called "Audidact Guides", the first being "Autodidacts Guide to C".
These books will be written entirely in markdown (commonmark
specification), and will be kept in a structure that allows it to be
transformed into various formats (like physical) easily. All content will
be under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International, and all
associated code (if code is included) will be under Apache-2.0. There
will be no charge, except for in a case like ordering a physical copy, in
which only the amount to cover the cost would be required.

The idea is that individuals from all ranges of experience use/contribute
to these books so that there is a consistent source of information. This
also means that the most up-to-date, consistent, and best information is
not monopolized and remains accessible to everyone.

Since I am in-experienced in a lot of things, and this is a community
effort, I need to find some experienced people.

Related:

* Annex M (informative) Change History M.4 - // comments
	<http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg14/www/docs/n2310.pdf>
* Autodidacts Guide to C
	<https://github.com/oglinuk/autodidacts-guide-to-c>
* Markdown (commonmark)
	<https://spec.commonmark.org/current>
* Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International
	<https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/>
* Apache-2.0
	<https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt>
